[Music]
Hello, my name is María Estrella
Alcaman Arias, I have a doctorate in
Molecular Genetics and Micrology and I am a researcher at the
Cas Center, Faculty of Engineering.
My line of research is the
microbial ecology of extreme systems, and in
these places we know the
diversity, abundance, and richness of
the microorganisms that inhabit
places as cold as Antarctica, as well as
places with fluctuating
temperatures such as the
high Andean systems in the north of the country.
Exploring the diversity of the
extreme microbial component allows us to understand
what its adaptations have been throughout
its evolution.  And understanding these
capabilities could also help us
know how to deal with
future changes.  We are currently
developing research in the
high-altitude systems.  In these places
we also want to know how these
organisms adapt to these
conditions of extreme temperature and
extreme humidity.  How do these
ecosystems survive in the high mountains?  and
also how it would affect its
distribution, for example, in the
event of lithium mining.
Understanding the adaptability of these microorganisms leads to collaboration, and this opens up a great opportunity for us as researchers to learn in depth about how these microorganisms behave from different angles.  Under
this umbrella we can even discover
new species and some that may
have biotechnological potential that
can help us and have some benefit
for the society in which we live.